[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: As we
watch, often in horror,
at the things people and
families and governments
do to each other, we might find
ourselves asking the question,
is that the best we can do?
Well, according to today's
guest, Daniel Raphael,
the answer is no.
But it might take
a little guidance
from some celestial beings.
Welcome.
And author of "Healing
a Broken World"
is what I didn't
say in the open.
And you say this-- I want to
get to know you a little bit--
but this wasn't an
easy book to write.
>>DANIEL RAPHAEL:
No, it was not.
>>REGINA: In a word, no.
OK.
Before we go there, let's
talk about your background.
Because here you were,
a nice Lutheran boy,
and then now you are
a person who channels
other beings that come through.
You had many things happen.
You were in Vietnam.
And also, you worked in the
felony corrections business,
and this must have
had quite an impact
on how you viewed social
structure on a personal level
as well.
So let's just start
with your own journey,
including your stint with
criminal corrections.
>>RAPHAEL: Well, as you say, I
was born in a devout Lutheran
home, and my spiritual journey
began at about age five.
And I found myself in
Sunday school coloring
a picture of Abraham with
a knife over his head about
to kill his son on the altar.
>>REGINA: I had a problem
when I was in Lutheran Sunday
school with that too.
I thought, oh, come on.
That's not what happens.
>>RAPHAEL: And I asked
my Sunday school teacher,
and I asked my mother about
that, and they had no answer.
So the next thing that
happened was Easter time.
Well, go figure.
Here we were coloring
another picture of Jesus
on the cross between
the two robbers.
And I asked the
teacher about that
and asked my mother about that
and why Jesus was on the cross.
And they gave me the
old story about making
a sacrifice for man's sins.
And that just, even at age five,
that didn't make sense to me.
It absolutely didn't make sense.
The logic of it
was totally absent.
>>REGINA: I was
with you on that,
asking the same questions.
>>RAPHAEL: And it took
me another 40 years,
until I was about
45, 47 years old,
before I was able
to have the time
to do the spiritual,
the theological journey
to discover the
reasons those occurred
and why they're illogical.
>>REGINA: OK.
Let's go into a little more
personal history, perhaps
working with people
who had been in trouble
in their life started
fashioning your views as well.
>>RAPHAEL: Well, when I
started at the penitentiary,
I'd never known
anybody to be arrested,
ever in jail, had never
visited anybody in prison.
>>REGINA: Well, what prompted
you to end up in this job?
>>RAPHAEL: We have to go
backwards a little bit.
>>REGINA: OK, go backwards.
>>RAPHAEL: OK?
When I was in
Vietnam, I realized
that I had been helped
in a counseling situation
with my Lutheran pastor, and
I liked that environment.
I liked that helping system.
So I applied to the university
to enter in a MSW program
to become a clinical
psychologist.
And they wanted to
approve me, but I
was one of, oh umpteen, many
dozen people who applied,
and I wasn't accepted.
So when I got back from
Vietnam, my wife's aunt
was the superintendent
at the women's prison.
And she said, well, they
have five new openings
for prison counselors next
door at the main prison.
Why don't you apply for that?
Well, I was so
green I didn't even
know the difference between
a clinical psychologist
and a caseworker, paper-pusher.
But so there I was
working in the prison.
Had my office on the third floor
of E block, 400 men in a block,
cell block.
And it was really interesting,
Regina, that I really
came to appreciate people
as unknown qualities
and quantities, that no matter
who sat across from you--
they may have tattoos
all over them.
They may have a grizzled
face, just been rode hard
and put away wet, so to speak.
But if you got to know them
and found out who was inside,
you oftentimes discover
someone worthwhile to talk to.
And so that's one side of it.
The other side is
that I had never
seen such moral
impoverishment in society
so bluntly face to face with me.
And I did intake
reports, and I had
to review the crimes that
they committed and horrendous,
just horrendous.
And so that really began
my thinking about, what
are the origins of such
unethical, immoral behavior,
the lack of social conscience?
And is it heredity or is it
environment sort of thing?
And so that experience was
a real grinding process
to hone me and the course
of my life in the future.
As there was a
spiritual component
I knew that was a reality.
I knew there was a social
component-- emotional,
family, physical,
parents, the whole thing.
And I discovered, too, why is
it a ghetto mother would have
8 or 10 children out of
wedlock from as many men,
and three of the children would
become professionals-- doctor,
accountant, attorney,
teachers, professors?
How does that happen?
>>REGINA: Well, that
gets to be your nature
versus nurture
question, doesn't it?
And then something
beyond all of that.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
And something beyond
all that and is
coincidence, happenstance.
And sometimes I remember from my
childhood, the wisdom gathering
that I did early on in
life, that I remember some
of the conversations standing
beside my dad in the field
as he was talking
to other farmers,
and they were sharing wisdoms
and talk about events.
And I would note some of
those wisdoms that came about.
And sometimes that
a person's life
can be changed by
one conversation
not even directed to them
but that they overhear.
And so whenever we have
contact with someone,
when I have contact
with someone,
I always see the potential
that maybe come out of that.
In the last 10, 15
years, I have had
no un-arranged
relationships with people.
People don't come into my life
anymore without something--
>>REGINA: There
has to be purpose.
>>RAPHAEL: --a purpose
and something occurring.
And so I give appreciation to
that moment and that person
because I never know what
I can contribute to them
and what they can contribute
to me and who may be listening.
>>REGINA: Right, absolutely.
OK.
So now somewhere along the
way, you got some kind of knock
on the noggin, some kind
of closed brain trauma?
OK.
So what happened?
Because that shifted your life.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
It shifted it tremendously.
There was a period of
time before that happened
where my life went kaput, and I
left corrections due to stress.
And one thing leads to another.
And eventually I was
putting a bicycle away,
and I'd rigged a
pulley to pull it up
in the rafters in
my mother's garage.
And I was standing
on this ladder,
and the next thing I knew I
was in hospital with my arm
in a sling.
I was on morphine.
And my first thought, how
am I going to pay for this?
Almost immediately it's like,
that's not your concern.
They're here to help you heal.
Take care of that later.
>>REGINA: When you say
almost immediately,
is that a thought you had?
Or was it a transmission?
Was it a voice?
Well, how did that come to you?
>>RAPHAEL: It was inner
thought, but the clarity
was really poignant.
Let's go back to the fall,
OK, because something
really incredible
happened at the time.
I landed on the
concrete floor head
first after falling
off a 6-foot ladder.
Hit my left side of my
head on the concrete floor.
The brain is in a
fluid state, and so it
banged back and forth, and
I had an internal contusion,
a bruise to my brain.
But I was out for about four
hours, and during that time
I got to see the wiring under
the board of the universe.
>>REGINA: Explain
the experience.
>>RAPHAEL: It was a
transpersonal experience.
And through regression
therapy I remembered that.
And I remember it was an
out-of-body experience as well.
And my body was
laying over there,
and I was standing,
floating there.
And my perspective
of my body then
was just as though
you would have
the same feeling about the
coat you left out on the rack.
You haven't thought of
it since then, have you?
I had no regard for
that body at all.
>>REGINA: And that seems to
be what most people experience
once they, for whatever
reason, are jettisoned out.
>>RAPHAEL: Yeah.
And so after that happened,
through the next two or three
years, it was a
very slow process.
I underwent-- one
of the symptoms
of a traumatic closed head
injury is personality change.
And we'll let that sit.
OK, for a bit.
And at that point, when
I was viewing my body,
I had the understanding
that I could
either cross over or
stay here and complete
the work I had begun.
And I chose to stay
here and complete
the work that I had begun.
I'd begun-- back in Vietnam,
I had had some notes
from about the demonstrations
of the students
and Kent State and
all that stuff,
and I thought there
must be a better way.
And that began some of
my earliest thoughts
on sustainable democracy.
OK.
So I came back, and I had
to recuperate physically,
and I had to heal myself.
During that episode, between
the time after corrections
and this accident,
I had virtually
lost everything-- wife,
children, retirement,
all the assets.
And then the hospital bill
took out the rest of the cash.
So after that, I began
a long-term period
of living as an ascetic.
I lived as an ascetic for about
10, 12 years and very simply.
And during that time, I began
to realize that my thinking was
different than it was before.
It was qualitatively different.
And that I had the same history,
same children, same wives,
same parents, all that
stuff, same relationships,
but I was thinking differently.
It was like someone
else's thought.
And because of my work
in criminal corrections,
I knew the difference
between schizophrenia,
dissociative personality
disorder, multiple personality
disorder, and hallucinations.
And I fit none of those.
And so 1993, I left Oregon
and lighted into Colorado
to stay with my relatives.
And in December 1994, I
changed my name completely.
Because I had run into some
other people who had the same
problem, and some people
had tried to go back to work
and couldn't.
I think of a powerful marketing
executive, this woman I met.
And she said, I
was a breadwinner.
I was going back.
This is my career.
This is who I am.
And she said, I went
back on a Wednesday,
and I left on Thursday.
I put everything in
a box and went home.
>>REGINA: Because she's
fundamentally different.
>>RAPHAEL: Yeah,
mentally different.
She didn't have the drive.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RAPHAEL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so that happened to you.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
>>REGINA: So you change your
name away from x to the name
we know you as now,
Daniel Raphael.
>>RAPHAEL: Daniel Raphael.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>RAPHAEL: Prior to
the time, the angels
had been calling me Daniel.
They knew my name, but they'd
always addressed me as Daniel.
And so when I changed my
name-- I like the Italian name.
So it was either Donatello,
or one of the Ninja Turtles,
or Raphael.
And so I chose Raphael.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, somewhere in this mix, you
began coming into association
with your angels, guides,
we all have different names
for the beings.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
>>REGINA: Tell us about that,
because that now sets up
the story.
>>RAPHAEL: Well, I'd been
talking to my guardian
angel most of my life.
When I was alone by myself
and out playing or working,
I'd talk to my guardian angel.
I didn't hear
anything at that time.
>>REGINA: That's what
I was going to ask.
So talking to them,
it was a one-way deal.
>>RAPHAEL: Yeah.
So during my recovery, I had
a period-- I was deeply alone.
Let me go-- yeah, deeply alone.
And so I began talking
to my guardian angel.
And I said, well,
what is your name?
Nada, nothing.
OK?
So I knew how they
worked because I'd
read-- in the '70s
and '80s, '90s,
they had a lot of
angel books out.
So one day I was
reading something.
I knew it was Eah something.
And one day I was reading a book
totally unrelated to the name.
And I'm going, it's Leah.
And I said, is that your name?
Yes.
So when you ask a
question, they will
answer before the last
syllable of your question.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>RAPHAEL: OK?
And so that
authenticates it for me.
And then in 1992, I sat
in on a Urantia Book--
a study group, a reading group.
And some friends of
mine had said, well,
you need to come to
the reading group.
It's different
than it used to be.
I said, well, I've
been to dozens of them.
And you've been to one,
you've been to them all.
And they said, no,
this is different.
So I went.
And there was my
ex-wife, my soon to be
ex-wife, sitting in a
corner in an easy chair.
And no one was saying anything.
And I didn't see any Urantia
Books under the chairs
or on their laps.
So I was quiet.
And pretty soon
someone said, well,
I guess everybody who's going
to be here is going to be here.
And so everybody
closed their eyes
for a moment of
silence, an invocation.
And pretty soon my ex-wife
began channeling Abigail.
Well, my ex-wife and I had
done public speaking together.
We'd done a lot of
writing together.
And I knew who this
woman was and who
she was bringing
through was not her,
but someone who really
had a grasp of the larger
perspectives of the
Urantia Book and talked
about our evolving
relationship between ourselves
and spirit and our lives in
this world and our world itself.
And I learned that
her job, Abigail's job
and other teachers' jobs,
was to introduce people
to universal social conscience,
ethics, and morality.
It's a Teaching Mission.
So I drove home.
And after the third
time I said, well,
Christ, Michael, Jesus, that
person, personality, I said,
do you think this
would be helpful to me
help your world enter in
the days of light and life?
I would like to do this.
And I ask your permission,
and you'd lead me into that.
Well, one year later, I became a
clairaudient conscious channel.
>>REGINA: And does that
lead us to the being?
>>RAPHAEL: To the being.
>>REGINA: To the
being, Monjoronson.
>>RAPHAEL: No.
Monjoronson doesn't show
up into my life until 2006.
>>REGINA: OK.
So let's just pick it up.
So we're still in the '90s then.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
>>REGINA: And let's talk about
how you got to Monjoronson,
and then we're going to talk
about the quality and the type
of information that
was coming through.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
I wasn't doing very much
channeling in the '90s.
It wasn't until 1998,
'99 that I really
became fluent,
continuous, very smooth.
And I was doing some-- my own
channeling, TRing, Transmitting
and Receiving, on the
keyboard close-eyed.
So I had to glue--
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>RAPHAEL: --some
buttons to my keyboard
so I can read it later on.
And so then I
wouldn't read them.
It's like writing
letters to God.
You put the letters away,
and a week later you
open it up and read it.
And you can measure
the validity of it.
And so that's what I do.
I was really startled at
some of the quality of it,
and I read closely.
You will continue to hear
the word "discernment"
through my discussion.
Discerning, knowing how
to discern carefully
is a secret to gaining
wisdom and what
is good wisdom and
what is bad wisdom.
And also the art of inquiry.
That's vital.
And before I was channeling,
I learned the art of inquiry.
I had to deal with
my guardian angel,
and I would do the
yes/no business.
And then eventually,
before I could hear,
I began to not
test, but say, how's
my work going to be tomorrow?
It'll be light.
What tools should I take?
Now, this sounds
like psychic stuff.
And I would have the
list-- are you sure
I'm going to need this tool?
Yes.
So I'd take it, put it
in the car, away we go.
Next day I was like,
glad I brought that.
So these were living
affirmations of connection.
And what they really want
to do during this era
is to establish personal
relationships with us.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RAPHAEL: OK?
>>REGINA: It has to be
a very frustrating job.
If you are assigned to help
humanity or an individual who
has no idea you exist and
never calls upon your services,
that's a very boring job.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
>>REGINA: Frustrating
and boring.
>>RAPHAEL: I had done
something early in my life.
As this child growing
older before graduation
from high school,
I'd always prayed
to help others help themselves.
I also prayed to do God's will.
So helping others
to help themselves,
it's better to
teach people to fish
rather than provide the fish.
And doing God's will, I
didn't learn the true aspect
of how you know that until
about six, seven years ago.
And that is if there's something
in your life that you need
or something that would
be beneficial to others,
you ask for an opportunity.
People pray-- not my will,
but your will be done.
But I pray for
opportunities to come
to me that would
lead me into the work
that I'm supposed to do.
And one time I waited
for three years.
Three years.
OK?
That's a while.
>>REGINA: Yeah, but there's
no time in the same sense
from their domain.
>>RAPHAEL: No.
And that's a very
astute thing you said.
Because they operate totally
on developmental progress.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>RAPHAEL: Time is irrelevant.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RAPHAEL: And so
we'll get into what
is the time right now for them
to show up and begin helping
us much more consciously.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now let's get to
where you met Monjoronson
and then get into
the work that started
becoming the framework for
the work you're doing now in--
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
>>REGINA: --"Healing
a Broken World."
>>RAPHAEL: I had
heard of a conference
in Santa Barbara in 2006.
I think it was early 2006.
And two women had used a team
approach with a group of people
to achieve some sort of a
goal or object or completion
of a project.
And that they also
had one person
who was a channel who would
just be there as a consultant,
not as an ongoing contributor.
But when people
get stuck, they ask
the consultant for this answer.
So I thought, wow, that's great.
And I had already
developed a schema, format,
for asking questions
that led to fulfillment,
and so I began to
think about that.
And how do we develop
a group of people?
And so I do a lot of meditation.
I mean, meditate
or contemplation
as well and reflective thinking.
They're all in the
same park, ballpark.
And it came to me
that what we needed
was a team that had roles.
And I knew from group
dynamics that you would
need between 5 and 11 people.
Optimum number is 7 to 9.
And then if you had
specific roles in there,
like as a facilitator-- not a
leader, a facilitator, and then
a recorder.
The recorder would
record the ahas,
those conceptual developments.
And also when
people have an aha,
sometimes it takes the group
off in a different direction.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RAPHAEL: So someone
needs to remember
that last line of inquiry.
So the recorder does that too.
And so sometimes
people wander around
and they go, oh, well,
that was a great idea,
but we need to get back
to-- well, where were we?
That's where the
recorder comes in.
Very simple.
OK?
>>REGINA: So you're
looking at a functional
kind of group dynamic.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>RAPHAEL: That curious
people would ask.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>RAPHAEL: Art of inquiry type
thing, people in the community.
And then there was a consultant.
Now, this team composition can
be secular, totally secular
without any spirituality,
or it can be
with the spiritual orientation.
The consultant
would be some person
who understands the intention of
the group, the project they're
working, and sees the intention
of social sustainability
as a long-term project,
not just 5 years
or 50 years but 500 years.
How does our piece contribute
to the sustainability
of global civilization, or
society, or communities?
And then the rest of the
members are inquiring members.
They're the most vital.
Everybody asks
questions, but their job
is to ask competent, capable,
and cogent questions.
OK?
And so that's the
composition of that.
That developed out of
that 2006, 2007, 2008.
And in 2007, I held a
workshop in Snowbird, Utah
and invited people to
come and participate
to learn about this process.
And it wasn't necessarily to
do it, to do the work of a team
but to learn to
understand it and what
the spiritual beings
were up to you
and why this was
needed at this time.
And then in 2008, I had a
workshop in San Miguel de
Allende, Mexico, and it
was a vacationing workshop.
So we worked four
hours in the morning,
and the rest of the day is--
>>REGINA: Yeah, San Miguel's
nice for that, yeah.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
And that was very successful,
and it broke even.
And then there was a hiatus.
In 2009, I did my first YouTube.
And all during this
time, these concepts
were beginning to
develop and evolve.
And I was working daily
with the spiritual teachers
who were working with
me in this progress.
And you got to throw away
your clock working with them.
What you're looking for
is the next aha, the next
spontaneous development--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RAPHAEL: --the one development
that leads to another.
And so that brings us up
pretty close to the present.
>>REGINA: OK.
Well, where did
Monjoronson come in?
That's what I was asking, yeah.
>>RAPHAEL: Monjoronson.
It's really interesting
you bring him up
because I repudiated
him to begin with.
His name came up in about
2004, and I didn't channel him.
And I thought this is just some
machination of somebody else's
mind, and so I left that
alone for two or three years.
And finally, I was
meditating one day,
and he came in and said,
this is Monjoronson.
May I have a word with you?
Sure.
So that validated that, and
one thing led to another.
And then we did a series of
sessions, transcribed sessions
every two weeks with
conversations with Monjoronson.
>>REGINA: And what was the
nature of the transmission that
was going on?
>>RAPHAEL: His work is
to use the people who
graduated or came out of
the Teaching Mission who
were morally and
ethically responsible
and responsive to
then become players
in the Magisterial Mission,
which is a much more
pragmatic approach to social
evolution, social development,
that societies could evolve.
I'll leave it at that.
So it's interesting,
Regina, that
being a channel-- I've been an
active channel for 20 years.
And when you sit as a
channel and this wisdom
comes through you, and you
are just part of the audience,
so to speak, and I'm listening
to it as anybody else is.
And much of it is just like,
well, that's new to me.
It's very interesting, and
more pieces of the puzzle
get put in.
So this whole process developed.
And the big project of his
work is not the reclamation.
This is not to reform people
or to reclaim societies.
This is to create something
new because there's
no fixing the old paradigms.
That's the wisdom
that comes through
and which many other
teachers say as well.
>>REGINA: Well, the reason
I ask is because now
when we start getting into the
actual functional framework
of all of this information
that was amassed--
and I assume it was through
you and a group of individuals.
I mean, are many
groups of people--
how did it work where this
whole body of information
came through in terms of
giving a blueprint for creating
socially sustainable societies?
>>RAPHAEL: The body
of my channel work
really begins in
August, September 2001,
after Snowbird--
and we came back.
And a lady who lives
in Loveland said, well,
why don't you come up and let's
have a weekly-- or every two
weeks-- a session where we
have somebody come through
to teach us?
Well, the first teacher that
came through was Rayson,
and he taught us for
two, three years.
And so then after that,
we had several subjects
that came about.
But we'd meet every
two weeks, and this
was recorded and transcribed
and sent out to people
on the mailing list by email.
Then when I got more
clear that Monjoronson
was a legitimate individual
and that there was something
to do meaningful
with them, for him,
I began to have more interest.
And that's when my time
in Vietnam and my notes
and the developments
of these thoughts
came together, come
together, with my thoughts
of social sustainability.
First, it was sustainability.
He talked about sustainability
in 2004 and 2006 and so on.
But then it became
very much more honed,
particularly in the
last three, four years,
as "sustainability" is the word.
Everybody talks
about sustainability.
And so I was guided to
discern the difference
between the subcategories
of sustainability
as material
sustainability, which
is quantity object-oriented,
and social sustainability, which
was quality value-oriented.
One has to do with people.
If there's no people, then
the world would heal itself.
So to have sustainability
of our material world,
we need to do as
many Boulderites do,
participate in some
project of sustainability.
But how about reclaiming-- how
about inventing, developing,
creating sustainable
family dynamics?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Now, this is where we
start getting into more
of what was told to you, right?
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
So we can go through this.
The framework here has
a few different areas
to it-- government, business,
culture, and individual.
So we're starting,
it sounds like,
more on an individual
level then.
Let's go from there, and let's
get very specific about what
the information was that
came through in terms of,
how do you begin growing
socially-responsible cultures
starting with the
individual that is
being birthed into the world?
Because some of this
gets controversial.
You're talking about-- very
controversial actually--
about the nature of parenting.
What's required?
Or in their ideal
vision of it, what
would be required
for parents to even
have children to begin with?
So let's start
there in this story.
>>RAPHAEL: Sure.
Excellent question.
It begins with a
procreative couple, that is,
two individuals who want
to live together and want
to have a family.
And they are the
individuals who enculturate
the child, their children.
And so we must begin with
the enculturating parents
first so that they understand
their responsibilities
to bring in a child
who will eventually
learn their skills to transmit
their own social skills
to their children,
the grandchildren,
so that they are
socially sustainable.
OK?
That is the ultimate object.
Society has a play in
that most definitely.
So you start with the
procreative couple.
And as they learn how to
raise their child-- let's
leave those specifics
alone for a bit.
OK?
Let's get the larger picture.
They will raise this child.
They'll learn about
child development,
what children learn
at different ages,
and how they
participate in that.
Then how they participate
in raising that child
and enculturating a child is a
tremendous educational process
for themselves as well
because this is in preparation
for being grandparents.
So that's the individual.
>>REGINA: So these are
very specific protocols
that were brought through
by the channel beings?
>>RAPHAEL: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>RAPHAEL: They brought
through the continuum
of sustainability.
The continuum begins before
birth, and pregnancy,
the birth, first two
weeks, first couple months,
first year.
And then what are the
significant markers,
developmental markers,
social markers that
occur during a person's
life until they leave home?
And during each of
these stages, the child
learns specific skills, and
specific attitudes and values.
>>REGINA: And who is the
arbiter of that information?
The beings pass some of this
information on, and then
who is supposed to give
these directives as
to how these children
should be raised?
And what is the
expectation in terms
of levels of participation?
>>RAPHAEL: Excellent question.
As you know, there's no
making anybody do anything.
Correct?
And so there are no external
arbiters, as people,
as bodies, a group.
But there are values that
are intrinsic, innate,
to us as individuals.
Our species is sustainable.
Our species, Homo sapiens,
have been in existence anywhere
from 40,000 to 400,000 years.
>>REGINA: Or more.
>>RAPHAEL: Or more.
So what is it that has
sustained our species?
I mean, we kill each other.
We even eat each other.
I mean, we have so
many wars and so on.
But what has driven
us to succeed?
What has urged us
on to "progress"?
Put that in quotes.
It is the core values of quality
of life, growth, and equality.
Most of us understand growth.
We grow.
We learn skills.
We learn knowledges.
We learn relationships.
We know how to manage
work and develop those
so that we can improve
the quality of our life.
The hardest one to get-- and
quality of life is interpreted,
can be personally interpreted.
And we have seen some people
interpret quality of life
as humongous amounts of money,
huge houses, many houses, cars,
et cetera, and so on, to
be in the right society.
So it's interpreted.
But what sustains us as
people and as families
and as societies and communities
into the next year and so on?
It's not cars.
It's not houses.
It's our relationships
with each other.
The one thing that is grossly
absent from the basic thinking
of most people is a true
understanding of sustainability
in terms of equality.
If you met five other Regina
Merediths as yourself,
you would love
them the same way.
You would want the same
things for them, wouldn't you?
>>REGINA: Or whatever
their unique expression
is of what they
wanted for themselves.
>>RAPHAEL: Sure.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>RAPHAEL: So the golden
rule-- do unto others
as you would have them do
unto you-- is multicultural.
It's in existence in
almost all cultures.
We have moved up from that
to the next level of morality
of pay it forward.
But there's no guide
for pay it forward.
And there's no guide
for the golden rule.
Does that mean giving every
person that comes by you
a Ferrari or smart car?
No.
So the arbiter for determining
this are those three values.
What sustains you must sustain
others in the same way.
The trouble we
have in our culture
is there's too many people.
Why do you think lives are so
cheap in Africa, in the Middle
East, and other countries?
>>REGINA: When you say there
are too many people, that
starts getting into
what many would consider
to be more elitist thinking,
that the population needs
to be reduced, for example.
Is Urantia work
saying the same thing?
>>RAPHAEL: Yes, in ways, but
there's no arbiter for that.
There's no religion, no
politics to determine that.
So our planet has only so
many million arable hectares.
It has only so much clean water.
Has only so much land
that can produce food.
And the quotient involves number
of people per square mile.
Well, do you include oceans?
Nope.
Do you include deserts?
What do you consider?
Well, wherever people could
materially become sustainable.
So our planet has far
exceeded the number
of people that is sustainable.
And it has been given through
these channelings anywhere
from 1.75 to a maximum
of 3 billion people.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean,
and that is up for debate.
I mean--
>>RAPHAEL: Sure.
>>REGINA: --there
are other people that
say if we were doing things
in an intelligent way,
if we were using the resources
if we were actually
introducing very sustainable,
non-polluting, and
effective new technologies,
that whole dynamic changes.
>>RAPHAEL: Well, yes.
>>REGINA: There is
plenty of water.
>>RAPHAEL: What's the
first word you used?
>>REGINA: There are seeds.
>>RAPHAEL: If.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's right.
But we're all capable of that.
Those templates
are already there.
That technology's already there.
It seems like there may be
even more so an effort to,
on some level, suppress
what could actually
be the salvation of the
species quite easily.
And so, I mean, do
they talk about this?
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
Our species is
incredibly fragile.
>>REGINA: And
incredibly resourceful.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
>>REGINA: Both.
>>REGINA: And so when you talk
about this population needing
to be reduced by over half,
or even more than that,
who or what would
determine that?
>>RAPHAEL: The next
series of cataclysms.
>>REGINA: OK.
So you're saying it's kind of
a self-organizing thing that's
happening on some level.
>>RAPHAEL: This is Gaia.
Gaia is a
self-balancing organism.
>>REGINA: Well, I
mean, there appears
to be some evidence we've
been wiped out before,
or large percentages of us.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
>>REGINA: So OK.
So the Urantia
work and this work
is saying by natural
processes, there
will be a reduction
in the population.
So therefore, what
we're trying to do
is lay down templates
for sustainable
thinking, behaving, and working
together so that you don't
get into this situation again.
Although we don't know that
that's the case, of course.
We don't know the genesis
for these various calamities,
for example.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
There are two intentions.
One is to create a
sustainable template
before the cataclysms
reduce the population so
that during reconstruction
these templates can
be used and applied
to then develop
sustainable social structures.
The second intention
is to develop the world
into a place that would
eventually become peaceful.
We yearn for social stability.
People talk about
they yearn for peace.
You have to have
social stability first.
The three pillars of
a functional society
is a society, the political
aspect, government,
and the
economic/financial aspect.
When those are
functioning, then you
can have the possibility
of a functional society.
If one of those breaks down,
you got problems, big problems.
OK?
So what they are trying
to do-- let me go around
the bush here-- is to invest
those values, those three
values, into the organizational
structures of organizations.
>>REGINA: But it sounds like
the central theme as to what
you said earlier, that makes
that, that drives that,
is equality.
Now, what does
that word actually
mean within the
context of all of this?
I know you said a
little bit before, but--
>>RAPHAEL: That means
giving the same value
to somebody in Chad
and Lagos, Africa
as you would a person in
Baltimore that you've never
met.
That's the equality of it.
In order for individuals--
the cutting edge of equality
is giving everyone
the same opportunity
to improve their
quality of life,
to grow, as you
would anybody else.
OK?
That's a large pill to swallow.
>>REGINA: Yes, it is.
And so, I mean,
within that framework,
that's not how it is right now.
>>RAPHAEL: No.
>>REGINA: People
are not-- none of us
are equal to anything else.
I mean, we're individual
beings with our own potentials.
We're incarnating
into societies,
some that are more
sustainable than others.
But also, at the other
end of that tree,
you have people of
magnificent wealth
who have garnered
this and their control
over resources for
themselves, for example.
So now how does that factor?
How is that dealt with?
Because one would assume,
and it's certainly
proving to be true at this
point, that the people who do
control a lot of the
world's resources,
people who could
just as easily lend
to the repair of a lot of
the damage that's been done,
aren't giving any of
it up voluntarily.
So where does this factor in?
How do you begin working
with these higher principles
on a planet of free will?
And that might even dovetail
into the original Urantia
story about the origins,
from this point of view,
of how humans came to be.
Well, that was a
much more simple task
than taking a
fully-developed planet
with every kind of thought
and idea and expectation
and trying to make it back into
something homogeneous again.
That's where it gets dicey.
So maybe explain all of this.
>>RAPHAEL: I'll bite
off just a little bit.
>>REGINA: A little bit.
>>RAPHAEL: Just a little bit.
>>REGINA: Little chunks.
So you can take it
in little chunks.
>>RAPHAEL: Their work always
begins with the individual.
That's it.
They're not here
to fix democracies.
They're not here to fix
societies or economies.
They're here to
assist individuals
to have better lives that are
in accord with the quality
of life, to grow, and to give
the same opportunity to others.
>>REGINA: To be respectful--
>>RAPHAEL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: --to others.
>>RAPHAEL: Respectful
to others--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>RAPHAEL: --on an
individual basis.
OK?
So when you look at
the global economy
and realize that there are
several trillion dollars that
are held in financial
instruments--
>>REGINA: Absolutely, that
could be released and utilized
on some levels.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah, but they're not.
>>RAPHAEL: But they're not.
How would an individual,
a multi-billionaire,
move their fortunes
to assist others?
It would have to be involved in
some program that would assist
others, individuals, working
in teams and at local levels,
to improve their quality
of life, to grow,
and to do that equally
as their neighbors would.
This is not done from
hierarchies on down.
This work of the celestials
and of healing our societies
and these three pillars must
begin at the local level.
Hierarchies are incapable
of doing it themselves.
>>REGINA: So if we can
get a reflection of that,
would that mean that the
celestials on the other side
are working around the
clock with humanity
on an individual basis to
inspire some of this higher
behavior in all of us,
including those who are-- well,
which, of course, it would have
to extend-- those who could
make a big difference
because they have garnered
large amounts of resources,
control, and power?
>>RAPHAEL: Right.
Yes, they do.
How does that work?
They won't ever
abrogate, or refute,
or deny the possibility
of someone's decision.
Once a decision is made
by a mortal, that's it.
Right?
That's in stone.
>>REGINA: So where do the
celestials come into this?
>>RAPHAEL: Options.
When you bought your car, you
were thinking about, well,
I've got a college
fund for the kids.
I got some other
things to think about.
What are my options?
So it does not violate
our self-will or our will
to be given more
options in thinking
about our resources or our
problems and how to solve them.
So they are looking
for people who
are open to receive options.
Some people are closed.
That's it.
Time out.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RAPHAEL: No options.
This is my option.
My way or the highway.
So with those, there's
no going forward.
But people who are
curious or wonder-- I
mean, there are truly
wonderfully wealthy people,
billionaires, who sit on this
money and going, now what?
>>REGINA: Right.
I mean, there has
been an assumption,
especially in this community
because it dovetails also
into the conspiracy community,
that while we can fully accept
that there are people who are
in the lower socioeconomic rungs
that are good-- you have people
that are beautiful people,
expressive, creative people here
to help and those who aren't.
It's exactly the same.
Doesn't matter.
You go vertical.
There are always good beings
and good people throughout.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
>>REGINA: And there are always
those who are more closed.
Yeah.
So I get that part.
>>RAPHAEL: They're
looking for open people.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK, so the beings
on the other side
are looking for open
people that they
can start influencing or working
with or making suggestions
of options to.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
So that's how this
is playing out.
Compared to in the
beginning where
it was more-- sounds like in the
Urantia work, in the beginning
it was a much more
top-down kind of directive
that appears to have gone
on with society as it
may have been developing
in its primitive stages.
And a lot more difficult,
like I said earlier.
Do they have to
individually, then,
get to each of these people?
So that's why you said it might
be a 500 or 5,000-year plan?
>>RAPHAEL: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>RAPHAEL: Yeah.
We were pretty much left
on our own for a long time.
But this is the first
time that the planet
has been totally inhabited.
There is the advent
of cataclysms.
How about the weather back East?
How about the hurricanes, the
rainfall, and the tornadoes?
>>REGINA: Yes.
The weather is changing.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
That's just weather.
We really haven't experienced
much tectonic problems yet.
And you realize
if some large city
went under-- Los Angeles
is what-- California's
the eighth largest
economy in the world?
Yes, it would have an
impact throughout the world.
>>REGINA: And sure it would.
>>RAPHAEL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So are they
saying that these things are
inevitable if human beings
don't change their behavior,
thoughts, characteristics?
Or what are these beings saying?
>>RAPHAEL: They're saying
these are natural developments.
We have seen them
coming for hundreds
of years, thousands of years.
>>REGINA: And they're
building up again--
>>RAPHAEL: And they're
building up again.
>>REGINA: --and about
to go through a round.
OK.
>>RAPHAEL: And it is the
Chinese philosophy of chaos.
In chaos, there's
opportunity and disaster.
Which will you choose?
If there's no hierarchy that can
reform itself and make things
better, if there is not
the motivation or awareness
at the local level to do
so, then there must be this
format-- what did you call
it?-- this format, this plan,
to be given to people that they
can reconstruct their societies
afterwards.
These events, the cataclysms
and the destruction
of societies and
nations, we've seen it
over and over and over again.
I'd like to bring out a point
that-- when's the last time
you ever heard of a successful,
sustainable Chinese dynasty?
Never.
Egyptian dynasty?
The Roman Empire.
Never.
English empire.
How many corporations do you
know of over 500 years old?
None.
How many societies and nations
have succumbed to time?
None.
>>REGINA: But might not
that be a matter of the fact
that life is dynamic,
our creation is dynamic.
What serves us in one
moment and we embrace
in one moment for
our own learning
may not serve us
in 50 or 100 years.
And this is just sort of the
natural flow of life, right?
>>RAPHAEL: When you're ignorant.
But if you knew the
principles of sustainability,
wouldn't you want
to adopt those?
I mean, the only
sustainable organism,
sentient organism that
we identify at least,
is Homo sapiens.
So what has sustained us?
Is it possible to
invest organizations
with these three values?
I say yes, it is, and
still make a profit.
Now, the other day, a friend
of mine gave me an aha.
He says, well sure,
Daniel, you can
have sustainable organizations.
But we have seen organizations
that are caring about people,
but they lack heart.
They lack love,
compassion, and empathy.
And so I recently
wrote a paper on that--
"Self-Sustaining Emotions."
That even if you had a
sustainable government,
it could be heartless.
But you'd want one
that was compassionate,
that was both just and merciful
and had empathy for people.
And that this would be
a criteria of judgments,
like a court order.
In the future in a
sustainable society,
that judgments were
to be based on,
does this help the
sustainability of individuals?
Does this help improve the
quality of people's lives?
Does this help people grow?
And would we do the same
thing for a rich person
as we would a poor, or
whether they're black
or white or red or yellow?
And further, does this
show a care and concern
for those individuals
involved, both the plaintiff
and the defendant
and the society?
So we have a long ways to go.
We're working with a really
primitive civilization
when you take a look at
what we do to each other.
Think of what's
happened in Syria
and the displaced people who
are in Jordan and Turkey.
It tears my heart out.
OK?
So there is room
for improvement.
This is the first time,
Regina, that we can consciously
think about a
process to transcend
our organizational failures.
>>REGINA: This specific
process you're talking about
that these beings have given.
>>RAPHAEL: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: So another
question I would have is--
I don't think
anybody would argue
there's room for improvement,
nor that we need to behave
in perhaps a little
more selfless
way when it comes to
containing the whole.
I mean, I think there are very
few people that would disagree
with that, as long as
we still had intact
our creativity, our
individuality, our free will,
and our means to express
our self in the thing
that we were uniquely
endowed with from birth
or even before,
as long as society
had that full color and
richness and so forth.
And yet, at the
same time, you have
these regions of the world.
You have different
religious philosophies
and so forth-- and motivating
factors in each society.
So wouldn't this kind
of system of protocols
need to uniquely
inculcate into each
of the societies in its
own way, not necessarily
from one central theme?
>>RAPHAEL: Is that a question?
>>REGINA: So I'm asking that.
Wouldn't it need to come
through a variety of means,
a variety of inspirations
that match maybe
or reflect the beliefs and
desires of a given culture?
Granted, we know we're still
immature and have much room
to grow.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
If you look at these
values and these emotions,
they're not culturally specific.
You'll find the desire
for improved quality
of life in all cultures
and races and nations.
These can be interpreted
in ways which
are in agreement with the
ethnic identity of groups.
You will find, and
I won't state them,
but you will find that there
will be some groups which
are doctrinaire and
adamantly could not
accept these three
values because they
don't see people as equal.
And they have rules that show
them that they aren't equal,
and they shouldn't
be treated equal.
There's no changing that.
But this begins at
an individual level.
This begins through
the attraction
of people who would like to have
peace in their neighborhood,
peace in their community,
peace in their family.
And so this begins at the
local level with individuals.
Whenever I share
this with people--
and I've been invited to
a public setting in Pueblo
next spring to discuss it-- and
we have such a Western mind,
such a linear mind, and such a
mind that seeks effectiveness.
But they want it done now.
>>REGINA: That's
a characteristic
of our quadrant on the planet.
>>RAPHAEL: Hey, we need a
Samson to tear down the walls
and heal everything.
We need a Solomon to pass
his tremendous judgment.
But in this setting, we
all must become Solomons.
That's asking a lot.
But it's asking
for the very best
that people can deliver
for their own lives.
Why would a father disparage
and mistreat a daughter
and give her less,
no college education,
but would pay for his
son's college education?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
These are ways of disparity
that have to be rectified.
>>RAPHAEL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>RAPHAEL: How does that?
And so it goes
back to intention.
I do coaching.
I'm a holistic life coach,
and I coach couples.
And I just shocked this
one couple when I did this.
They were having problems, and
they were looking down the road
to divorce if it kept going.
And I said, well, what
was your intention
for marrying this man?
Well, I loved him.
I said, no, love is not enough
to make a relationship work.
You have to have some
dynamics in there.
You have to sell some really
give and take in there.
And I asked him, well,
what was your intention?
And they both stated what the
intention was at that time.
And I said, now, what
is your intention
now for being with this woman?
What is your intention now
for being with this man?
So we must look
to intention when
we-- and money is
a real huge culprit
in bending morality and ethics.
And it can do all the
most disparaging things
in the name of "goodness."
Put that in quotes.
So these three values
and these three emotions
really give us a universal
guide for assisting individuals,
for assisting non-profits,
for assisting global councils,
community councils for
determining and weighing
the projects that they sponsor.
And so there are now thousands
of people hearing this message.
The interesting thing about
social sustainability,
even with professors-- do you
recall Professor Albert-- he's
recently deceased,
and he brought out
the exponential
growth of populations.
And he was a professor
emeritus at CU-Boulder.
And I asked him one
evening at a meeting where
we could ask questions of him.
And I said, what do you see
as a substantial difference
between material sustainability
and social sustainability?
He said, well, really,
there's no difference.
If we don't have
material sustainability,
then we won't have society's.
And I just didn't ask
any more questions
because his concern was
about material sustainability
sustaining people.
But how do people
sustain themselves?
When I meet healthy families,
generation after generation
of healthy people who love
each other, it's foreign to me.
How do we do this?
And how do we teach
others how to do that?
>>REGINA: So in summary, because
we're just about out of time--
>>RAPHAEL: Sure.
>>REGINA: --what my
understanding is, is there
a group of celestial beings--
there are many of them-- who
would like to reach
through into our awareness
and help us understand
that there's another way
to structure our
societies, our governments,
the way we do
families, and so forth?
And they may or
may not be totally
cohesive in their message.
It might have a slightly
different flavor
for the individual, culture,
family, and so forth.
And that by beginning
to embrace some
of this on an
individual basis, we
can start this healing process.
But it also sounds like there
is very specific information
that essentially trickles
down into designed teams
for structuring society and such
that "Healing a Broken World"
is actually referring to as
templates that could also
be consciously adopted by
humans if they desired.
>>RAPHAEL: Yes.
>>REGINA: Is that
more or less correct?
>>RAPHAEL: That's correct.
>>REGINA: Now, any
final thoughts on that?
Because we just about
like have a minute left.
>>RAPHAEL: There's no
miracles, but there is help.
And they do have a design,
and they shared that with us.
It's up to us to use
that design or not.
And it's not our problem
because this world
is an incubator of new
souls, and the quality
of souls that cross over needs
to improve, according to them.
Because a lot of people
cross over to the other side
and going, I've had enough.
I'm not going forward.
And that's the end of it.
So what we lose when they
do that is their experience.
And this is all about
bringing experience
to the First Source and Center.
The First Source and Center is
perfect, but it's incomplete.
The thing that God
lacks is experience.
God is perfect
but is not living.
So he needs to live through us.
And so when we strive to
improve our lives in ways
that help others
and helps ourselves,
then that experience
becomes part of the matrix.
>>REGINA: Very good.
Thank you.
Thank you for your time
and thank you for--
>>RAPHAEL: You're welcome.
>>REGINA: --sharing
a little bit.
We just barely really
even touched on it.
>>RAPHAEL: Just a bit.
>>REGINA: And as you said,
it was a very difficult book
to write.
It's controversial.
People need to go in and look at
the information for themselves,
then.
Is that fair enough?
>>RAPHAEL: That's fair enough.
>>REGINA: And then
weigh it themselves.
Very good.
>>RAPHAEL: Thank you.
>>REGINA: Thank you, Daniel.
Again, the book is called
"Healing a Broken World,"
which is available
through major booksellers.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]